docs/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/actions.mdx, before:

---
title: "Actions"
description: "Actions are predefined events within your app that prompt Formbricks to display a survey when triggered. These are detected by the Formbricks widget, which then presents the appropriate survey based on your predefined settings."
icon: "code"
---

## **How Do Actions Work?**

<Steps>
  <Step title="User performs action">
    The user performs an action in your application.
  </Step>

<Step title="Formbricks widget detects action">
  The embedded widget (SDK) detects the action, if you set up a [No Code
  Action](/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/actions#setting-up-no-code-actions) or a [Code
  Action](/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/actions#setting-up-code-actions) to do so.
</Step>

<Step title="Check for survey trigger">
  If a survey is set to trigger on that action, Formbricks checks if the user or visitor qualifies.
</Step>

  <Step title="Check for user or visitor qualification">
    If the user or visitor already filled out a survey in the past couple of days (see [Global Waiting Time](/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/recontact#project-wide-global-waiting-time)), the survey will not be shown to prevent survey fatigue.

    Also, if this user or visitor has seen this specific survey before, Formbricks might not show it as this is dependent on the [Recontact Options](/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/recontact).

  </Step>

  <Step title="Show survey">
    If all conditions match, the survey is shown.
  </Step>
</Steps>

<Tip>
  Tying surveys to specific user actions enables **context-aware surveying**: You make sure that your user
  research is relevant to the current user context which leads to sign**ificantly higher response and
  completions rates** as well as lower survey fatigue.
</Tip>

<Note>
  **Important**: Any changes to actions, surveys, or environment configuration will take up to 5 minutes to
  reflect in your app/website running the formbricks sdk with debug mode enabled due to server-side caching.
  This includes new actions, modified action configurations, and survey trigger updates. For quick updates
  during development and testing, you can enable [Debug
  Mode](/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/framework-guides#activate-debug-mode) in your SDK
  configuration.
</Note>

## **Setting Up No-Code Actions**

Formbricks offers an intuitive No-Code interface that allows you to configure actions without needing to write any code.

<Note>
  No Code Actions are **not available for surveys in mobile apps**. No Code Action tracking are heavily
  dependent on JavaScript and most mobile apps are compiled into a different programming language. To track
  user actions in mobile apps use [Code
  Actions.](/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/actions#setting-up-code-actions)
</Note>

<Steps>
  <Step title="Visit the Actions tab via the main navigation">
    ![Action overview on Formbricks Open Source Survey Solution](/images/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/actions/actions-view.webp "Action overview on Formbricks Open Source Survey Solution")
  </Step>

  <Step title="Click on 'Add Action' in the top right corner to see the following:">
    ![Add action to open source in app survey](/images/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/actions/i2.webp "Add action to open source in app survey")
  </Step>
</Steps>

There are four types of No-Code actions:

### **1. Click Action**

![Add click action to open source in app survey](/images/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/actions/click-action.webp "Add click action to open source in app survey")

A Click Action is triggered when a user clicks on a specific element within your application. You can define the element's inner text, CSS selector or both to trigger the survey.

- **Inner Text**: Checks if the innerText of a clicked HTML element, like a button label, matches a specific text. This action allows you to display a survey based on text interactions within your application.

- **CSS Selector**: Verifies if a clicked HTML element matches a provided CSS selector, such as a class, ID, or any other CSS selector used in your website. It enables survey triggers based on element interactions.

- **Both**: Only if both is true, the action is triggered

### **2. Page View Action**

![Add page view action to open source in app survey](/images/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/actions/page-view.webp "Add page view action to open source in app survey")

This action is triggered when a user visits a page within your application.

### **3. Exit Intent Action**

![Add exit intent action to open source in app survey](/images/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/actions/exit-intent.webp "Add exit intent action to open source in app survey")

This action is triggered when a user is about to leave your application. It helps capture user feedback before they exit, providing valuable insights into user experiences and potential improvements.

### **4. 50% Scroll Action**

![Add 50% scroll action to open source in app survey](/images/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/actions/scroll.webp "Add 50% scroll action to open source in app survey")

This action is triggered when a user scrolls through 50% of a page within your application. It helps capture user feedback at a specific point in their journey, enabling you to gather insights based on user interactions.

This action is triggered when a user visits a specific page within your application. You can define the URL match conditions as follows:

You can combine the url filters with any of the no-code actions to trigger the survey based on the URL match conditions.

### **Page Filter**

You can limit action tracking to specific subpages of your website or web app by using the Page Filter. Here you can use a variety of URL filter settings:

- **exactMatch**: Triggers the action when the URL exactly matches the specified string.

- **contains**: Activates when the URL contains the specified substring.

- **startsWith**: Fires when the URL starts with the specified string.

- **endsWith**: Executes when the URL ends with the specified string.

- **notMatch**: Triggers when the URL does not match the specified condition.

- **notContains**: Activates when the URL does not contain the specified substring.

## **Setting Up Code Actions**

For more granular control, you can implement actions directly in your code:

<Steps>
  <Step title="Configure action in Formbricks">
    First, add the action via the Formbricks web interface to make it available for survey configuration:

![Add a code action to open source in app survey](/images/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/actions/code-action.webp "Add a code action to open source in app survey")

  </Step>

  <Step title="Add action tracking to your code">
    Use formbricks.track() to send an action event to Formbricks:

    ```
    formbricks.track("action");
    ```

    Here is an example of how to fire an action when a user clicks a button:

    ```javascript
    const handleClick = () => {
      formbricks.track("Button Clicked");
    };

    return <button onClick={handleClick}>Click Me</button>;
    ```

  </Step>
</Steps>

Commit message:

feat: Add Regex No Code Action Page Filter (#6305)
Co-authored-by: Dhruwang <dhruwangjariwala18@gmail.com>

docs/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/actions.mdx, after:

---
title: "Actions"
description: "Actions are predefined events within your app that prompt Formbricks to display a survey when triggered. These are detected by the Formbricks widget, which then presents the appropriate survey based on your predefined settings."
icon: "code"
---

## **How Do Actions Work?**

<Steps>
  <Step title="User performs action">
    The user performs an action in your application.
  </Step>

<Step title="Formbricks widget detects action">
  The embedded widget (SDK) detects the action, if you set up a [No Code
  Action](/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/actions#setting-up-no-code-actions) or a [Code
  Action](/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/actions#setting-up-code-actions) to do so.
</Step>

<Step title="Check for survey trigger">
  If a survey is set to trigger on that action, Formbricks checks if the user or visitor qualifies.
</Step>

  <Step title="Check for user or visitor qualification">
    If the user or visitor already filled out a survey in the past couple of days (see [Global Waiting Time](/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/recontact#project-wide-global-waiting-time)), the survey will not be shown to prevent survey fatigue.

    Also, if this user or visitor has seen this specific survey before, Formbricks might not show it as this is dependent on the [Recontact Options](/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/recontact).

  </Step>

  <Step title="Show survey">
    If all conditions match, the survey is shown.
  </Step>
</Steps>

<Tip>
  Tying surveys to specific user actions enables **context-aware surveying**: You make sure that your user
  research is relevant to the current user context which leads to sign**ificantly higher response and
  completions rates** as well as lower survey fatigue.
</Tip>

<Note>
  **Important**: Any changes to actions, surveys, or environment configuration will take up to 5 minutes to
  reflect in your app/website running the formbricks sdk with debug mode enabled due to server-side caching.
  This includes new actions, modified action configurations, and survey trigger updates. For quick updates
  during development and testing, you can enable [Debug
  Mode](/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/framework-guides#activate-debug-mode) in your SDK
  configuration.
</Note>

## **Setting Up No-Code Actions**

Formbricks offers an intuitive No-Code interface that allows you to configure actions without needing to write any code.

<Note>
  No Code Actions are **not available for surveys in mobile apps**. No Code Action tracking are heavily
  dependent on JavaScript and most mobile apps are compiled into a different programming language. To track
  user actions in mobile apps use [Code
  Actions.](/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/actions#setting-up-code-actions)
</Note>

<Steps>
  <Step title="Visit the Actions tab via the main navigation">
    ![Action overview on Formbricks Open Source Survey Solution](/images/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/actions/actions-view.webp "Action overview on Formbricks Open Source Survey Solution")
  </Step>

  <Step title="Click on 'Add Action' in the top right corner to see the following:">
    ![Add action to open source in app survey](/images/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/actions/i2.webp "Add action to open source in app survey")
  </Step>
</Steps>

There are four types of No-Code actions:

### **1. Click Action**

![Add click action to open source in app survey](/images/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/actions/click-action.webp "Add click action to open source in app survey")

A Click Action is triggered when a user clicks on a specific element within your application. You can define the element's inner text, CSS selector or both to trigger the survey.

- **Inner Text**: Checks if the innerText of a clicked HTML element, like a button label, matches a specific text. This action allows you to display a survey based on text interactions within your application.

- **CSS Selector**: Verifies if a clicked HTML element matches a provided CSS selector, such as a class, ID, or any other CSS selector used in your website. It enables survey triggers based on element interactions.

- **Both**: Only if both is true, the action is triggered

### **2. Page View Action**

![Add page view action to open source in app survey](/images/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/actions/page-view.webp "Add page view action to open source in app survey")

This action is triggered when a user visits a page within your application.

### **3. Exit Intent Action**

![Add exit intent action to open source in app survey](/images/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/actions/exit-intent.webp "Add exit intent action to open source in app survey")

This action is triggered when a user is about to leave your application. It helps capture user feedback before they exit, providing valuable insights into user experiences and potential improvements.

### **4. 50% Scroll Action**

![Add 50% scroll action to open source in app survey](/images/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/actions/scroll.webp "Add 50% scroll action to open source in app survey")

This action is triggered when a user scrolls through 50% of a page within your application. It helps capture user feedback at a specific point in their journey, enabling you to gather insights based on user interactions.

This action is triggered when a user visits a specific page within your application. You can define the URL match conditions as follows:

You can combine the url filters with any of the no-code actions to trigger the survey based on the URL match conditions.

### **Page Filter**

You can limit action tracking to specific subpages of your website or web app by using the Page Filter. Here you can use a variety of URL filter settings:

- **exactMatch**: Triggers the action when the URL exactly matches the specified string.

- **contains**: Activates when the URL contains the specified substring.

- **startsWith**: Fires when the URL starts with the specified string.

- **endsWith**: Executes when the URL ends with the specified string.

- **notMatch**: Triggers when the URL does not match the specified condition.

- **notContains**: Activates when the URL does not contain the specified substring.

- **matchesRegex**: Activates when the URL matches the pattern from the specified string.

## **Setting Up Code Actions**

For more granular control, you can implement actions directly in your code:

<Steps>
  <Step title="Configure action in Formbricks">
    First, add the action via the Formbricks web interface to make it available for survey configuration:

![Add a code action to open source in app survey](/images/xm-and-surveys/surveys/website-app-surveys/actions/code-action.webp "Add a code action to open source in app survey")

  </Step>

  <Step title="Add action tracking to your code">
    Use formbricks.track() to send an action event to Formbricks:

    ```
    formbricks.track("action");
    ```

    Here is an example of how to fire an action when a user clicks a button:

    ```javascript
    const handleClick = () => {
      formbricks.track("Button Clicked");
    };

    return <button onClick={handleClick}>Click Me</button>;
    ```

  </Step>
</Steps>
