docs/xm-and-surveys/surveys/general-features/variables.mdx, before:

---
title: "Variables"
description: "Variables are a powerful feature in Formbricks that allows you to keep track of data variables when user fills a form. This feature is especially useful when you want to use your survey as a quiz."
icon: "x"
---

## Types of Variables

There are two types of variables you can add to your survey:

1. **Text**: You can add text variables to your survey to capture text data.

2. **Number**: You can add number variables to your survey to capture number data.

## How to Add Variables

1. Edit the survey you want to add variables to & switch to the Questions tab and scroll down to the bottom of the page. You will see a section called **Variables**.

![Variables card](/images/xm-and-surveys/surveys/general-features/variables/variables-card.webp)


1. Now click on it to add a new variable ID. You can add as many variables as you want. You can also choose the type of variable you want to add along with the default value.

![add variables](/images/xm-and-surveys/surveys/general-features/variables/input-variables.webp)


![created variables](/images/xm-and-surveys/surveys/general-features/variables/created-variables.webp)

## Use case:

- **Quiz**: You can use variables to create a quiz. For example, you can add a variable `score` and update it every time a user answers a question. You can also use the variable for recall to show the final score to the user.

- **Personalisation**: You can use variables to store user data and personalise the survey experience. For example, you can add a variable `full_name` and update it every time a user fills in their first name and last name. You can use the variable to personalise the survey experience by addressing the user with their full name.

## How is it different from Hidden Fields?

Variables are different from hidden fields in the following ways:

1. **Setting**: Hidden fields can be set through query parameters or `formbricks.init`, but the variables can only be set either during creation or dynamically by using logic actions.

2. **Updating**: Hidden fields cannot be set again, but the value of variables can be updated while the user fills the survey.

3. **Type**: Hidden fields can only store text data, but variables can store both text and number data.

## How to use Variables

1. Once you have added the variables to your survey, you'll be able to access them in the logic editor. You can use the variables to create logic actions and conditions.

![Variables usage](/images/xm-and-surveys/surveys/general-features/variables/variables-usage.webp)

1. You can create logic based on the variables and questions in your survey and can update the variables based on the user's response.

![Logic with variables](/images/xm-and-surveys/surveys/general-features/variables/logic-with-variables.webp)


<Note>
  To know more about how to use logic in Formbricks, check out the [Conditional
  Logic](/xm-and-surveys/surveys/general-features/conditional-logic).
</Note>

Commit message:

docs: add recall info to variables (#5977)

docs/xm-and-surveys/surveys/general-features/variables.mdx, after:

---
title: "Variables"
description: "Variables are a powerful feature in Formbricks that allows you to keep track of data variables when user fills a form. This feature is especially useful when you want to use your survey as a quiz."
icon: "x"
---

## Types of Variables

There are two types of variables you can add to your survey:

1. **Text**: You can add text variables to your survey to capture text data.

2. **Number**: You can add number variables to your survey to capture number data.

## How to Add Variables

1. Edit the survey you want to add variables to & switch to the Questions tab and scroll down to the bottom of the page. You will see a section called **Variables**.

![Variables card](/images/xm-and-surveys/surveys/general-features/variables/variables-card.webp)


1. Now click on it to add a new variable ID. You can add as many variables as you want. You can also choose the type of variable you want to add along with the default value.

![add variables](/images/xm-and-surveys/surveys/general-features/variables/input-variables.webp)


![created variables](/images/xm-and-surveys/surveys/general-features/variables/created-variables.webp)

## Use cases

- **Quiz**: You can use variables to create a quiz. For example, you can add a variable `score` and update it every time a user answers a question. You can also use the variable for recall to show the final score to the user.

- **Personalisation**: You can use variables to store user data and personalise the survey experience. For example, you can add a variable `full_name` and update it every time a user fills in their first name and last name. You can use the variable to personalise the survey experience by addressing the user with their full name.

## How is it different from Hidden Fields?

Variables are different from hidden fields in the following ways:

1. **Setting**: Hidden fields can be set through query parameters or `formbricks.init`, but the variables can only be set either during creation or dynamically by using logic actions.

2. **Updating**: Hidden fields cannot be set again, but the value of variables can be updated while the user fills the survey.

3. **Type**: Hidden fields can only store text data, but variables can store both text and number data.

## How to use Variables

1. Once you have added the variables to your survey, you'll be able to access them in the logic editor. You can use the variables to create logic actions and conditions.

![Variables usage](/images/xm-and-surveys/surveys/general-features/variables/variables-usage.webp)

1. You can create logic based on the variables and questions in your survey and can update the variables based on the user's response.

![Logic with variables](/images/xm-and-surveys/surveys/general-features/variables/logic-with-variables.webp)

### Recalling Variables in the Survey

You can recall show the variable value to the respondent by using the [Recall Data](/xm-and-surveys/surveys/general-features/recall) function.

<Note>
  To know more about how to use logic in Formbricks, check out the [Conditional
  Logic](/xm-and-surveys/surveys/general-features/conditional-logic).
</Note>
